docs/formats.md, before:

# All about the data formats

Data transfered by painttyServer and painttyWidget via TCP socket is a compressed json file.

## Compression

A json file will be compressed by **zlib**'s deflate way, `compress2()`, in its default level. 

And according to Qt, the result should be prepend 4 bytes as a header represents the uncompressed size.

Say, I have a 10 bytes data to compress(shown in hex):

	90 8a 97 bb c0 71 42 ac d7 f0

I should use `compress2()` in zlib and prepend 4 bytes before the result, reads as hex:

	00 00 00 0a 78 9c 9b d0 35 7d f7 81 42 a7 35 d7 3f 00 00 20 b8 06 53

Notice, the 4 bytes header, 0x0000000a, is actually an unsigned, big-endian, 32-bit integer.

## TCP pack

Even though the network today is quite fast today, TCP sockets may recieve data discontinuous. Thus, a 10 bytes data may turn to 7+3 bytes.

In paintty, we use the simple tridational but powerful way to handle this: size header.

Like compressing we did, each block of data will be prepended a 4 bytes header, represented how long the data is, and one byte for other low level imformation. Up to now, only 1 bit is used to identify whether the Json file is compressed.

If you got keen eyes, you may notice this header repeats the compression header. That's true. But since the TCP layer knows nothing about the data structure, it's necessary to do so.

## Json file

Json file differs when transfer different type of data. To avoid any trouble with case, we use lower case for all keys.

### Update Check

Finally we decided to have a updater. The bundle updater only do a one-time check to sever for the newest version info. And the server also only response once.

However, to protect main server program, this update check use a separated channal/port. Currently, we use a standalone program to do this job, make it possible for main program to do hot swapping. That is, this update service is not really a part of painttyServer.

#### Request version info

painttyUpdater:

	{
		request: "version",
		platform: "windows x86",
		language: "zh_TW"
	}

Possible value for `platform`:

* windows x86;
* windows x64;
* mac;

These platform may support in future without guarantee:

* linux x86;
* linux x64;
* unix;
* ios;
* android;
* qnx

#### Response version info

	{
		response: "version",
		result: true,
		info: {
			version: "0.3a",
			changelog: "Add: updater bundled with client.",
			level: 1,
			url: "http://mrspaint.oss.aliyuncs.com/%E8%8C%B6%E7%BB%98%E5%90%9B_Alpha_x86.zip"
		}
	}

Here we have a quick glance:

* `version`: `version` is a string, not a number;
* `changelog`: brief change summry;
* `level`: priority of this update. Bigger is more urgent. `level` larger than 3 means "no update, no login".
* `url`: Optional. Updater has a pre-defined update url.

### Room list

To join a room, painttyWidget needs to know where is the room and what are ports of the room. This controled by RoomManager.

#### Request room list

painttyWidget:

	{
		request: "roomlist"
	}

painttyServer:

	{
		response: "roomlist",
		result: true,
		roomlist: [
			{
				name: 'blablabla',
				currentload: 0,
				maxload: 5,
				private: true,
				serveraddress: "192.168.1.104",
				cmdport: 310
			},{
				name: 'bliblibli',
				currentload: 2,
				maxload: 5,
				private: false,
				serveraddress: "192.168.1.104",
				cmdport: 8086,
			}
		]
	}

or jsut:

	{
		response: "roomlist",
		result: false
	}

### Request a new room

painttyWidget:

	{
		request: "newroom",
		info: {
			name: "",
			maxload: 8,
			welcomemsg: "",
			emptyclose: false,
			password: ""
		}
	}

painttyServer:

	{
		response: "newroom",
		result: true,
		info: {
			port: 20391,
			password: "",
			key: "C96F36C50461C0654E7219E8BC68DF6E4C4E62D9"
		}
	}
, or:

	{
		response: "newroom",
		result: false,
		errcode: 200
	}
	
At preasent, we only support 16-character length string for name.

A successful result returns a info object, including cmdPort, password and a signed key. This is very convenient for client to login the room directly. The signed key is a token of room owner. To protect the room from being attacked by hackers or saboteurs, room owners should never spread this signed key out.

The errcode can be translate via a `errcode` table. Here, we have errcode 200 for unknown error.

* 200: unknown error.
* 201: server is busy.
* 202: name collision.
* 203: invalid name.
* 204: invalid maxMember.
* 205: invalid welcomemsg.
* 206: invalid emptyclose.
* 207: invalid password.
* 208: emptyclose not supported.
* 209: private room not supported.
* 210: too many rooms.
* 211: invalid canvasSize.

### Login Room

Since Beta, we have 3rd socket channal, command channal. When log in a room, connect to room's cmdSocket, and request login.

The login request must provide pwssword if room requires, or it fails.

#### Request Login

Login with password:

	{
		request: "login",
		password: "",
		name: "someone"
	}
	

Login without password:

	{
		request: "login",
		password: "123456",
		name: "someone"
	}

Notice, `password` is a String, not integer or others.

#### Response Login

	{
		response: "login",
		result: true,
		info: {
			historysize: 10240,
			dataport: 8086,
			msgport: 8087,
			size: {
				width: 720,
				height: 480
			},
			clientid: '46b67a67f5c4369399704b6e56a05a8697d7c4b1'
		}
	}
	
, or

	{
		response: "login",
		result: false,
		errcode: 300
	}
	
Here, notably, the `historysize` represents history data size of data socket, which should parse as unsigned long long.
	
`errcode` table:

* 300: unknown error.
* 301: invalid name.
* 302: invalid password or lack of password.
* 303: room is full.
* 304: you're banned.

### Room management

All room management actions need a signed key to prove that the actions are made by room owners.

#### Checkout

To ensure one room is still under control, server schedules a close action to room. Thus, room owner must checkout in time. Currently, 72 hours seems a good schedule time.

client sends:

	{
		request: 'checkout',
		key: ''
	}
	
server returns:

	{
		response: 'checkout',
		result: true,
		cycle: 72
	}
	
There's one new thing `cycle` here. Normally, remain time of a room is shown on the roomlist. But on some circumstances, `cycle` can be useful for room owner to know when to checkout next. Also, the unit of `cycle` is hour, not ms.

Failure return:

	{
		response: 'checkout',
		result: false,
		errcode: 700
	}
	
`errcode` table:

* 700: unknown error
* 701: wrong key
* 702: timeout, which means too late.

#### Close Room

client sends:

	{
		request: "close",
		key: ""
	}
	
server returns:

	{
		response: "close",
		result: true
	}

or
	
	{
		response: "close",
		result: false
	}

Since the only reason for a failed close is a wrong key, we don't use errcode here.

Besides, server will send a message via cmdSocket, telling every client to exit the room, which will look like:

	{
		action: 'close',
		info: {
			reason: 501
		}
	}

The `reason` can be:

* 500: closed by room or room manager
* 501: closed by room owner

#### Clear Layers

At present, there's no way to clear single layer in the history. The only option is to clear all layers.

To clear all layers, room owner need to send such message:

	{
		request: 'clearall',
		key: ''
	}
	
Then server may return a message contains a result:

	{
		response: 'clearall',
		result: true
	}

Like close room, the only reason for a failed request from server is that the owner send a wrong key. So we don't really need a errcode:

	{
		response: 'clearall',
		result: false
	}
	
### Room interaction

Interaction between client and room can be achieved via command socket or channal. For security reason, each request needs a `clientid`. If recieved `clientid` is unknown, the request may be abandoned.

#### Query Online Members

Query online members in room is fairly simple as sending a request.

	{
		request: 'onlinelist',
		clientid: '46b67a67f5c4369399704b6e56a05a8697d7c4b1'
	}

And server may return:

	{
		response: 'onlinelist',
		result: true,
		onlinelist: [
			{
				name: 'someone'
			},
			{
				name: 'others',
			}
		]
	}
	
Or if any error:

	{
		response: 'onlinelist',
		result: false,
		errcode: 600
	}
	
`errcode` can be:

* 600: unknown error.
* 601: room is closed already. Note, this may happen because room is closed when room owner request to close, but the close state lasts to no one stays in room.

#### Notification

Notification is message sent by server. Thus, notification can only be received by client.

	{
		action: 'notify',
		content: '<span style="color: red">hello, I am server.</span>'
	}

Notice, notification IS HTML.

### Painting actions

#### Draw Point

	{
		action: "drawpoint",
		info: {
			point: {
				x: 10,
				y: 98,
			},
			brush: {
				width: 10,
				color: {
					red: 0,
					green: 0,
					blue: 0
				},
				name: "Brush"
			},
			layer: "layer0",
			userid: '46b67a67f5c4369399704b6e56a05a8697d7c4b1'
		}
	}

#### Draw Line
	
	{
		action: "drawline",
		info: {
			start: {
				x: 100,
				y: 32
			},
			end: {
				x: 107,
				y: 35
			},
			brush: {
				width: 10,
				color: {
					red: 255,
					green: 255,
					blue: 255
				},
				name: "Brush"
			},
			layer: "layer1",
			userid: '46b67a67f5c4369399704b6e56a05a8697d7c4b1'
		}
	}
	
<s>Notice, QColor is a temporary way to store color. RGB seems to be the best way to store and transfer, but on client, we still have a HSV model. Thus, this is not the best time to talk about it. </s>

### Text Message

	{
		from: "",
		to: "",
		content: ""
	}

Since server doesn't validate message at all, both `from` and `to` is not reliable. If our server does want to send a message, use cmd channal instead.

Commit message:

add: pressure information; add: changelogs.
Signed-off-by: liuyanghejerry <liuyanghejerry@126.com>

docs/formats.md, after:

# All about the data formats

Data transfered by painttyServer and painttyWidget via TCP socket is a compressed json file.

## Compression

A json file will be compressed by **zlib**'s deflate way, `compress2()`, in its default level. 

And according to Qt, the result should be prepend 4 bytes as a header represents the uncompressed size.

Say, I have a 10 bytes data to compress(shown in hex):

	90 8a 97 bb c0 71 42 ac d7 f0

I should use `compress2()` in zlib and prepend 4 bytes before the result, reads as hex:

	00 00 00 0a 78 9c 9b d0 35 7d f7 81 42 a7 35 d7 3f 00 00 20 b8 06 53

Notice, the 4 bytes header, 0x0000000a, is actually an unsigned, big-endian, 32-bit integer.

## TCP pack

Even though the network today is quite fast today, TCP sockets may recieve data discontinuous. Thus, a 10 bytes data may turn to 7+3 bytes.

In paintty, we use the simple tridational but powerful way to handle this: size header.

Like compressing we did, each block of data will be prepended a 4 bytes header, represented how long the data is, and one byte for other low level imformation. Up to now, only 1 bit is used to identify whether the Json file is compressed.

If you got keen eyes, you may notice this header repeats the compression header. That's true. But since the TCP layer knows nothing about the data structure, it's necessary to do so.

## Json file

Json file differs when transfer different type of data. To avoid any trouble with case, we use lower case for all keys.

### Update Check

Finally we decided to have a updater. The bundle updater only do a one-time check to sever for the newest version info. And the server also only response once.

However, to protect main server program, this update check use a separated channal/port. Currently, we use a standalone program to do this job, make it possible for main program to do hot swapping. That is, this update service is not really a part of painttyServer.

#### Request version info

painttyUpdater:

	{
		request: "version",
		platform: "windows x86",
		language: "zh_TW"
	}

Possible value for `platform`:

* windows x86;
* windows x64;
* mac;

These platform may support in future without guarantee:

* linux x86;
* linux x64;
* unix;
* ios;
* android;
* qnx

#### Response version info

	{
		response: "version",
		result: true,
		info: {
			version: "0.3a",
			changelog: "Add: updater bundled with client.",
			level: 1,
			url: "http://mrspaint.oss.aliyuncs.com/%E8%8C%B6%E7%BB%98%E5%90%9B_Alpha_x86.zip"
		}
	}

Here we have a quick glance:

* `version`: `version` is a string, not a number;
* `changelog`: brief change summry;
* `level`: priority of this update. Bigger is more urgent. `level` larger than 3 means "no update, no login".
* `url`: Optional. Updater has a pre-defined update url.

### Room list

To join a room, painttyWidget needs to know where is the room and what are ports of the room. This controled by RoomManager.

#### Request room list

painttyWidget:

	{
		request: "roomlist"
	}

painttyServer:

	{
		response: "roomlist",
		result: true,
		roomlist: [
			{
				name: 'blablabla',
				currentload: 0,
				maxload: 5,
				private: true,
				serveraddress: "192.168.1.104",
				cmdport: 310
			},{
				name: 'bliblibli',
				currentload: 2,
				maxload: 5,
				private: false,
				serveraddress: "192.168.1.104",
				cmdport: 8086,
			}
		]
	}

or jsut:

	{
		response: "roomlist",
		result: false
	}

### Request a new room

painttyWidget:

	{
		request: "newroom",
		info: {
			name: "",
			maxload: 8,
			welcomemsg: "",
			emptyclose: false,
			password: ""
		}
	}

painttyServer:

	{
		response: "newroom",
		result: true,
		info: {
			port: 20391,
			password: "",
			key: "C96F36C50461C0654E7219E8BC68DF6E4C4E62D9"
		}
	}
, or:

	{
		response: "newroom",
		result: false,
		errcode: 200
	}
	
At preasent, we only support 16-character length string for name.

A successful result returns a info object, including cmdPort, password and a signed key. This is very convenient for client to login the room directly. The signed key is a token of room owner. To protect the room from being attacked by hackers or saboteurs, room owners should never spread this signed key out.

The errcode can be translate via a `errcode` table. Here, we have errcode 200 for unknown error.

* 200: unknown error.
* 201: server is busy.
* 202: name collision.
* 203: invalid name.
* 204: invalid maxMember.
* 205: invalid welcomemsg.
* 206: invalid emptyclose.
* 207: invalid password.
* 208: emptyclose not supported.
* 209: private room not supported.
* 210: too many rooms.
* 211: invalid canvasSize.

### Login Room

Since Beta, we have 3rd socket channal, command channal. When log in a room, connect to room's cmdSocket, and request login.

The login request must provide pwssword if room requires, or it fails.

#### Request Login

Login with password:

	{
		request: "login",
		password: "",
		name: "someone"
	}
	

Login without password:

	{
		request: "login",
		password: "123456",
		name: "someone"
	}

Notice, `password` is a String, not integer or others.

#### Response Login

	{
		response: "login",
		result: true,
		info: {
			historysize: 10240,
			dataport: 8086,
			msgport: 8087,
			size: {
				width: 720,
				height: 480
			},
			clientid: '46b67a67f5c4369399704b6e56a05a8697d7c4b1'
		}
	}
	
, or

	{
		response: "login",
		result: false,
		errcode: 300
	}
	
Here, notably, the `historysize` represents history data size of data socket, which should parse as unsigned long long.
	
`errcode` table:

* 300: unknown error.
* 301: invalid name.
* 302: invalid password or lack of password.
* 303: room is full.
* 304: you're banned.

### Room management

All room management actions need a signed key to prove that the actions are made by room owners.

#### Checkout

To ensure one room is still under control, server schedules a close action to room. Thus, room owner must checkout in time. Currently, 72 hours seems a good schedule time.

client sends:

	{
		request: 'checkout',
		key: ''
	}
	
server returns:

	{
		response: 'checkout',
		result: true,
		cycle: 72
	}
	
There's one new thing `cycle` here. Normally, remain time of a room is shown on the roomlist. But on some circumstances, `cycle` can be useful for room owner to know when to checkout next. Also, the unit of `cycle` is hour, not ms.

Failure return:

	{
		response: 'checkout',
		result: false,
		errcode: 700
	}
	
`errcode` table:

* 700: unknown error
* 701: wrong key
* 702: timeout, which means too late.

#### Close Room

client sends:

	{
		request: "close",
		key: ""
	}
	
server returns:

	{
		response: "close",
		result: true
	}

or
	
	{
		response: "close",
		result: false
	}

Since the only reason for a failed close is a wrong key, we don't use errcode here.

Besides, server will send a message via cmdSocket, telling every client to exit the room, which will look like:

	{
		action: 'close',
		info: {
			reason: 501
		}
	}

The `reason` can be:

* 500: closed by room or room manager
* 501: closed by room owner

#### Clear Layers

At present, there's no way to clear single layer in the history. The only option is to clear all layers.

To clear all layers, room owner need to send such message:

	{
		request: 'clearall',
		key: ''
	}
	
Then server may return a message contains a result:

	{
		response: 'clearall',
		result: true
	}

Like close room, the only reason for a failed request from server is that the owner send a wrong key. So we don't really need a errcode:

	{
		response: 'clearall',
		result: false
	}
	
### Room interaction

Interaction between client and room can be achieved via command socket or channal. For security reason, each request needs a `clientid`. If recieved `clientid` is unknown, the request may be abandoned.

#### Query Online Members

Query online members in room is fairly simple as sending a request.

	{
		request: 'onlinelist',
		clientid: '46b67a67f5c4369399704b6e56a05a8697d7c4b1'
	}

And server may return:

	{
		response: 'onlinelist',
		result: true,
		onlinelist: [
			{
				name: 'someone'
			},
			{
				name: 'others',
			}
		]
	}
	
Or if any error:

	{
		response: 'onlinelist',
		result: false,
		errcode: 600
	}
	
`errcode` can be:

* 600: unknown error.
* 601: room is closed already. Note, this may happen because room is closed when room owner request to close, but the close state lasts to no one stays in room.

#### Notification

Notification is message sent by server. Thus, notification can only be received by client.

	{
		action: 'notify',
		content: '<span style="color: red">hello, I am server.</span>'
	}

Notice, notification IS HTML.

### Painting actions

#### Draw Point

	{
		action: "drawpoint",
		info: {
			point: {
				x: 10,
				y: 98,
			},
			brush: {
				width: 10,
				color: {
					red: 0,
					green: 0,
					blue: 0
				},
				name: "Brush"
			},
			pressure: 0.74,
			layer: "layer0",
			userid: '46b67a67f5c4369399704b6e56a05a8697d7c4b1'
		}
	}

Note, `pressure` as a real number, should always be a double.

#### Draw Line
	
	{
		action: "drawline",
		info: {
			start: {
				x: 100,
				y: 32
			},
			end: {
				x: 107,
				y: 35
			},
			brush: {
				width: 10,
				color: {
					red: 255,
					green: 255,
					blue: 255
				},
				name: "Brush"
			},
			pressure: 0.74,
			layer: "layer1",
			userid: '46b67a67f5c4369399704b6e56a05a8697d7c4b1'
		}
	}
	
Note, `pressure` as a real number, should always be a double.

### Text Message

	{
		from: "",
		to: "",
		content: ""
	}

Since server doesn't validate message at all, both `from` and `to` is not reliable. If our server does want to send a message, use cmd channal instead.
